README.md, before:

# Cellular Automata

This is an experiment with cellular automata. A functional mod for [Rem's Engine](https://github.com/AntonioNoack/RemsEngine).

When experimenting, I found the [Sierpinski Triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sierpi%C5%84ski_triangle) the easiest to type in + most interesting:
births = 1, survives = 0, states = 5.

The following images show the cellular automate with those settings:

![example 1](preview/shot0.jpg)
![example 2](preview/shot1.jpg)
![example 3](preview/shot2.jpg)

I was inspired to experiment with cellular automata by [Tantan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63qlEpO73C4&ab_channel=Tantan).


## Building

This is a mod for Rem's Engine, so first build the engine. Then you can build this project, e.g. with Intellij Idea.
There are no dependencies besides my engine.

## Run Sample

Visit the [releases page](https://github.com/AntonioNoack/CellularAutomata/releases), download and run it.
I might create a web-build in the future.

## Simulation

My focus went more towards GPU optimizations, because they were the bottleneck at 50³ cells at the start.
Now, the CPU performance could be improved substantially, e.g. by using good multithreading.
Later, I added a GPU solver.
Transferring the data from GPU back to CPU isn't implemented yet.

## Visualization

First I implemented the visualization using instanced rendering & blocks. I added a MeshSpawner for that purpose into my engine (CellularAutomaton1).
However, probably because of overdraw, the performance was quite bad, and a fractal cube with 50³ cells already caused my RX580 to go down to 30fps at 1080p.

I then tried to create chunks like in Minecraft, just to see what the performance would be. Unsurprisingly, it was no better.

Then I tried raytracing within the cells boundaries. This was a large win, and brought my fps back to 160 in 1080p (CellularAutomaton2).
First I used the front face of the bounds-cuboid as a ray-starting point and a mask of where to raytrace. But this made movement inside the cell volume inpossible.
I then rewrote the shader such that you're able to render from any point. The mask is now the backside of the cuboid.

Since this shader may be useful for other projects, e.g. similar ones to [Teardown](https://teardowngame.com/), I also integrated it into [my engine](https://github.com/AntonioNoack/RemsEngine).

Commit message:

Updated readme, added a few new pictures and converted old ones to Webp for quicker download

README.md, after:

# Cellular Automata

This is an experiment with cellular automata inspired by [Tantan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63qlEpO73C4&ab_channel=Tantan).
It's also a functional mod(ule) for [Rem's Engine](https://github.com/AntonioNoack/RemsEngine).

When experimenting, I found the [Sierpinski Triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sierpi%C5%84ski_triangle) the easiest to type in + most interesting:
births = 1, survives = 0, states = 5.

The following images show the cellular automate with those settings:

![sierpinski triangle in 3d](preview/sierpinski0.webp)
![sierpinski triangle in 3d, cleaner shape](preview/sierpinski1.webp)
![sierpinski triangle in 3d, bigger, corners cut off](preview/sierpinski2.webp)
![sierpinski triangle in 3d, small, with nicer colors because in newer Rem's Engine](preview/sierpinski3.webp)
(Yes, Rem's Engine has become more colorful 😄)

When using a Moore-Neighborhood (full 3x3x3 cube) instead of a Von-Neumann-Neighborhood (just direct neighbors),
the sierpinski-triangle becomes cubic:

![cubic sierpinski](preview/cubic_sierpinski0.webp)

The current build also has presets for Conway's Game Of Life:

![conway's game of life sample](preview/conway0.webp)

## Building

This is a mod for Rem's Engine, so first build the engine. Then you can build this project, e.g. with Intellij Idea.
There are no dependencies besides my engine.

## Run Sample

Visit the [releases page](https://github.com/AntonioNoack/CellularAutomata/releases), download and run it.
I might create a web-build in the future.
